# Scripts

A collection of useful python, perl and R scripts. 

**mem-usage.py** - script, that shows summaries of resident memory usage by different applications plus some other info on Linux systems. Script uses output of smem utility, particularly PSS column, which estimates "real" resident memory usage per process as sum of actual resident memory of a process and estimated share of resident memory, used by shared libs. The script then sums them per application. Additional info is shown for Chrome and Firefox.

Requires: *smem*

Usage:
```sh
$ python3 mem-usage.py [-p <PROC_NAMES>] [-ff <FF_DUMP_FILE>]
```

Supply a list of applications you want to have summaries for in a file called PROC_NAMES. Without it (and if default file *mem-usage-list.txt* is not also present), only information about Chrome and Firefox will be given. 

Information about processes, run by other users, requires sudo, since without sudo smem shows information only about user processes.

For Firefox, script can also read memory dump file, which can be generated by about:memory page in Firefox. This version of the script requires memory dump, as generated by the 'Measure' button on this page (and not 'Measure and Save') with optionally ticked 'verbose'. Copy and paste this memory dump into a text file and give its name as FF_DUMP_FILE. 

TODO:
- do actual match of process IDs between smem output and Firefox memory dump. Determine, if the memory dump was from a different session and tell as much
- Parse Firefox's JSON output
- Try to make more meaningful output when run without parameters for different systems


